All right. Okay. Good afternoon, everyone. So quite a large number of students, right? I was expecting around 150 or 200. Students, I think it's almost around 300 students now, right? So okay, object oriented programming, right? All of you say mister one, year one, right? So okay, already one minute mean passed. So let's just start our class because today is just an introductory class. Okay, I believe there are like 300 students sitting here. For me today in this class, it's almost impossible to get to know all of you your names, right. But anyhow, since we also have our practical classes, where we you guys will be divided into groups of 30 to 40 students, right? So that time, actually, we can No, I would like to know you guys in those classes, right. So today, if we're going through one by one, so it's almost going to be impossible. And also, it will be a bit hard for me to remember the names right, which I'm not very good at remembering the names. So anyhow, let's just begin with this, I will just go through a brief introduction of our class about myself, and what will be the expectation of the course and then what we are going to do throughout the whole semester. Right. So okay, here's just a brief outline of the today's lecture, right, not actually lecture, but just an introduction of date, right. So we'll be discussing about the expectations and myths that what exactly you will be expecting from this course, and what you have to come up with right and then about the course outline introduction to the groups and also Oracle ID right. So, here actually in this course, object oriented programming, you guys should be learning Java, Java programming language, and also you will be provided with Oracle Academy IDs. So means all of the course contents that actually you will be covering from Oracle Academy ID. So means at the end of the day, once you completed this course, to all of you, you will have your Java foundation certification, right, which is from the Oracle, how you will do that I have created IDs for all of you, not you guys have not been assigned yet. I will share that on my times. So means all of you will have access to that. In a short moment, I will just also explain about that as well. Right? And then tools and materials class assignment and assessments, and then some housekeeping rules and then if you guys have any question and answer, so we will just go through this session as well. Right. So Okay, a little bit about me, my name is Nikita recon, or doctor in the video you can call me Doctor now. Right? I am from SWAT Pakistan is a small hometown, and I did my PhD here from TELUS University. Previously, I did my bachelor in software engineering, my master's in software engineering, and then I did my PhD here at Dalhousie University, and it's now been almost one year that I'm teaching here. And previously I have working experience so working as a junior software engineer and software senior software engineer, as a project manager. and also software tester and also running a small organization and small, small company, which is still running, and I'm doing some projects with them. Right. And then also, I've been an active member, like you guys in the university right participate in a lot of events was active member of the societies and clubs, even here to tell us I was the president of the post graduate student council right. So, okay, anyhow, throughout the course, we will be knowing about each other more and more, right. So, here is one of my favorite slide, right? That actually, since most of you guys is your first semester and I normally show this slide, in my very first lecture class, right. So here is written expectations and myths, right? See in today's world of digitalization, right, you guys all have access to the same resources that as I also have, right? And some of you might be very good researcher, very good. Content Creator, very good. Very creative, right? So means you can study more and more, the more you study, the more you learn, right. So okay, in the university, normally, in the semester, we have very limited time, right? Just only the whole work is like for for four months, right? And in this one hour lecture, right? Possibly, you can not only just a little bit of the knowledge, right? But the more you study, the more you learn by yourself. Here is an example of this, you guys can see different kinds of rice being given, right? So let's say if I have to come to this class, and teach you how to make rice, right, or how to cook rice, so Okay, fine. What I can do is, I can only teach you the one which I know right, let's say for instance, I belong to Pakistan, right? So normally we have the essay biryani pulao maybe I'm good at that, right? So at the end of the day, all of these 300 students, you guys will learn how to cook food or biryani, right? But what if we teach here or we learn here ingredients? Right, rice, tomato, and let's say Martin de foretell right at the end of the day, all of you coming from different backgrounds coming with your different thinking your creative skills, right? You guys can come up with 300 different dishes from the same ingredients are there right. So, the example I am giving here is actually whatever you are learning from here in the classes right? What you need to do is go and implement do not just just be limited to whatever knowledge you are learning here right try to implement it in a more creative way that you are exactly learning right. So okay. That means that all of the assignments or all of the group projects or all of the things that have been provided to you come up with some creative skills, whatever you feel right, just do it right implemented in the programming skills and apply it and, and that's how you will learn more. So, okay, outcome of the course of course, programming skills, this is just an introductory, since a lot of you are not coming from the computer science background and especially some of you, it will be your first time to learn any programming language right, I believe some of you are already coming from foundation and already in touch with like the sorry, some of the programming language may know anyone who is already familiar with the programming language, just raise your hands if you have done coding. Right. Okay. But see, we have some already who have used his programming languages, right? So okay, that's good, great, but a lot of us is our first time or here. So, that's why the course contents have been magic made in such a way that first we do the introduction to programming and then later on we go to the Object Oriented concepts are there right. And then we will also be learning about the different tools and software's some coding experience and at the end of the day, you all can get your your certification right. So, okay, the contents are the materials already uploaded to my times what you can do is you can go to my times, all of the lectures, all of the assignments have been uploaded assignments will be uploaded by the end of this week. So, you can have your assignment you can review our assignment that what exactly you will be working on. So, in this course normally we have a group project right remember the group projects carries the most marks 50 50% of the marks is all only coming from the group project right. So means that is very very important. Anyone who is not participating in a group project or fail to submit a group project means 50% marks are not there which automatically makes you fail right. So try to come up with that group project seriously. You can Okay, I think in right now, I will calculate how many number of students are here I believe is 300 Right. So you guys can maximum how group members from five to eight member right? Not more than that. But I will I will post on my time. So all of you. From starting from next week, you can form your groups right? And then 10% marks goes to the presentation once your group project is already completed right. You will have your presentation in 13 or four The week of the semester so that time you'll get a 10% marks 10% marks goes to the midterm exam, and 30% marks will be for the final exam. Right now the midterm exam actually is online that I'll be taking the Oracle Academy ID, once I provide you guys, the Oracle Academy ID, you can actually go through the whole course, in even one day, you can finish it if you have energy for that, right. But remember, there is a midterm exam, you do not need to click on that anyone who actually try even to click on the midterm exam, I'll show you so means you will already be excluded from the midterm exam. So for the midterm exam, in order on the Oracle Academy ID, you have to wait for the week eight, right. And once I announced, so means here, you guys will be coming, your midterm exam will be online, you're bringing your devices here, and then you will be taking that right. Later on.

I'll show you the instruction on that how we will proceed with it. So can this been done already? Okay, some housekeeping rules, right? Before we go to our actual Oracle Academy presentations are there right? So I'll create a WhatsApp group, right? You guys can post your queries on that since 300 students right, or more or less. So try to keep if there is something really important only posting the WhatsApp, right? One more thing is no more no personal or private messages is already understandable. That okay, I might have some of my own personal things. And then if like 300 or 200 students, are you sending messages, right? So maybe even if you're asking something very important, I may skip it right? Not that I don't want to reply, but just because of the number of the messages previously I experienced right? And that's why I will not reply to any personal message at all right? But you can always write to me on my email address on my email address, I will be replying to you within 24 hours no matter how many times you send the email or the right on the email, I do reply I check my email regularly and okay fine. Especially this just a general rule. So, please do not contact after 10pm and especially on the weekends itself, right you guys enjoy your weekend? Let me enjoy my weekend right. So okay. So, these are some of the housekeeping rules right that we will be carrying throughout the semester. I see some of the students sitting over there is it Are there any seats if some seats are empty you guys can come come one by one those who are sitting at the back yes please come can see you see two here or there here just come one by one

yeah come here

have you standing Yes Come here another seat I can see here one is are there

any other empty seats next to you guys? What is your there you can go there Yes.

So, okay, one more thing is all of you are down here at the university now, all of your grown up students right. So make sure that please pay attention to the classroom and the lecture itself. Anyone of you who is actually going to discuss or say something, right? So one or two, just like a basic basic discussion is okay. But any conversation that exceeds more than a minute right? is already a gossip right? So that will not be bearable. I will not do anything to your attendance, you can leave the class, right? Do do your gossip out there are those who are learning here and sitting here. Let them learn right. So that's why all of you whether there's a tutorial classes or whether there's a lecture class, right? Please try to keep come and if you still want to discuss or talk something right I don't mind that's the door just go outside and discuss and go sit with your friends and I don't even care I will mark your attendance don't worry about that right? But once you are sitting here in the class, I want you guys to be professional right? I want I want you guys not to disturb the rest of your classmates. Right. So okay you guys have any questions until now? Any question any confusion or anything you guys would like to share or discuss anyone

so far all good. Okay.

Let's just go through quick about the score set right what would be your expectation and what we will be good going to do? Okay, so as we discussed already, in the course, we will be learning about Java language and especially about the basic programming languages, right. So some of you might already have gone through my times and installed some of the IDs. So the ID that actually we will be using in this course as NetBeans, right? Netbeans is an ID where we use, we write our code, right? Any ideas, okay, for you guys, whatever, you feel comfortable with that, right? So there's no bound for that, but just here at the lecture course, I myself will be using this one, then there's also a puzzle game that has been provided. So means at the end of the day, you actually get to know how this will be working, right, and other materials, some of the exercises and all those things are already being provided and uploaded to my times itself as well. Right? So all of the exercises, that actually you will see at the end of any of the lecture, right, I uploaded it already, even I uploaded the source code for the right. But the soul exercises does not mean that actually you go and look for the soul exercises, right? Before what what I expect from you guys is first you try by yourself, right? And after that, if you don't find if you don't find it helpful, right, then only just go and take the hell from those sorts of exercise or the right. So, this just a simple understanding of that. Anyhow, you those of you already familiar with the programming language, you can see that what the code look like those of you who have not yet been tried, right. So that's what exactly you will be doing all the time. We have sections of this lecture. So means, until week eight, we will be covering almost one lecture each day, but after week nine, week eight is actually free week. So means there will be no classes in that you will be preparing for your assignment or other exams and so on and so forth right. And after that, we will be going through the object oriented concept. So, here this course has been divided into what is Java then we will be also understanding about Java basics right. And then our third lecture will be data types, right? What are our data types, what is a variable, numeric type, textual, so on and so forth. This all will be coming in the lecture number three, lecture number four is about classes from the Java API, right? What are classes? What is a method, we will be learning all of these keywords in terms those of you who already know, it's okay, right, but those for those with this new term, so we will be learning in depth in Section Five or lecture five, we'll be talking about decision statements, then section six is about Loop statement classes, arrays, job application and then the final project right. So, you the final project you will be working on the project that actually is been will be assigned to you and I will upload it on my times, what you guys need to do is to have a look at it, understand it. So you cannot start on the project from week one or week two, the reason for that is because you didn't learn anything right. So, but I believe from week four, you can start working on your project already because we already you already have learned a lot of the things are there right and normally the project or your group assignment right there is being expected that you guys should the deadline for that is in week 10 right because we rely on trails then we will keep the presentation over there anyhow in the document when I'm going to upload it so the deadline for that would be already present earlier right. One more thing especially which I would like to discuss about the group projects or when you are making your groups right try to make your groups in the same tutorial classes because right now all of you are sitting here in one lecture class, but all of you have been divided into different different practical groups right whether So, try to take friends from your same practical class the reason for that is because you guys would have more time sitting and understanding with each other I previously experienced some of the students which are from different from different two groups right and then they had problems. And one more thing is since there would be you can choose your module leader or sorry, you can choose your group leader for any of the project please try to participate in all of the projects if any student or any of your group member is not participating do come to me before week four right after week four if you are coming and then you are complaining about any of your your group mates that is not helping. So actually, they don't I cannot entertain their time right. So come to me discuss with me as early as possible if there is any problem in the issue so that we can change it right? Because since it's a good group project and as I mentioned already that this carries the most of the marks or anything go wrong with it means you will fail a subject right. So just take it a bit serious and also choose your group members wisely okay. Okay, challenges of designing discourse, right. So what And the basic challenge is this, that's because we here have some of the students who are already familiar with the programming language and have used the coding or the right. So, some of the basic example that we will be going through or I also have two tutors who will be taking the tutorial classes for some of the some of the some of the group's actions, right. So even if those two tutors, they are teaching you something, or let's say if I'm going to teach you something, so sometimes we could go with the very basic example of that. So I believe some of you who are sitting already, they would think that okay, fine, why do we need to discuss this because it's very basic or they're right, but you need to keep in mind that we also have some students are here, this is your first time learning the programming right. So, sometime we could go on very basic level of understanding some time, you could go on high, so because it's one of the challenges are there and the main purpose of this course is to know how to to program right to learn how to program. So, so, that means that if there are any any examples that is on a very low level, right, so, those of you who are already expert are already good at programming, right? So just think of it as that other of your classmates are learning and some of this could be advanced as well right? Because we also need to go a bit with the flow of the course content itself as well. The reason for that is and if you do not understand that particular thing, right, so you can come to me you can write to me, anytime you can go to your YouTube tutor that who will be teaching to you, you just go and ask curious and if even if there is time, will you an extra consultation hour and try to make you understand that how to come up with it right? But just come and ask the questions, right. Okay, the course actually contents, this course components, talking about the Java Oracle Academy course, which you will be going through online, right. So there are lessons right now all your demo of it. And then there are small exercises, or there's some quizzes, right, those cases actually do not carry any marks. Well, that is just for your understanding what they are, right. So it's just a short quiz at the end of every lecture. And then some practices practices or sorry, the practices are those which you will be carrying out in the practical classes, right. And then all the materials are also available on the Oracle Academy ID itself. And also I upload it to my times, right, so you can access it from both the exercise actually are being given all of the content. So there, I will be showing you in a short moment, some of the games being provided, you can also play with this game, if you really want to enjoy the rest of the course, right? So you can edit those codes, you can actually write those codes, you can actually add something through that code itself as well, right? Quizzes, as I discussed already, this quiz, actually, not the quizzes that I'll be taking in a class is just when you complete one lesson, at the end of every lesson, you will be asked one or two quizzes in that particular lesson. And that's how actually, you have to do it doesn't carry any negative marks. And even if you write it, if you made a wrong choice, right, you can actually re attempt the quiz again and again as well unless and until you pass it right.

So okay, at the end of the day, what you will be doing is enjoy creating simple programs, and especially some of you those who will be learning also the UI, right. So maybe coming up with developing a full fledged applications are there. And one more important thing is that you will be learning the fundamentals of the programming. And at the end of the day, you can also get your Java, Oracle Academy certification, as well. So at the moment, right now, I have created all of your IDs, because I it's impossible to create on your names, right? So I will assign those IDs to your to your particular student ID and you have to get access to that right, I will show you the IDS I have not uploaded it to my times yet. Because the first week there is dropping and drop out courses right so maybe some of the students would be leaving some of the students will be some of new students will be joining right. So that's the reason that I have not uploaded the Oracle Academy ID yet. But I will show you how you can actually access to that right? Because the reason for that is if I created ID and let's say assigned to a student, and then they leave the class right later on okay, that Id actually just goes in means like do not have access to it or maybe will not be used especially when we are going to mark those midterm marks or especially the final term marks right. Okay, before we go and explain that right, let me just show you a little bit IDM

Okay, so once this Excel sheet, you see it online on the My times, right? Right now it's just a raw file is nothing more there. So your IDS will be assigned to it. But I'm just giving an example I will take one of the ID, let's say for instance, this ID

and then I'll go to sorry, and then I will go to I'll provide the link for this as well right academy.oracle.com Right now it's okay you guys, if you cannot see it very clearly from there, or you do not understand it, what I'm going to do is okay, just have a look at the picture of how you exactly you are going to do right. So here you can see is written as sign in. And then for you guys you need to click on Sign is a student hub, right? You will right here, your Oracle Academy ID that's being provided to you, the default password for that is Oracle Academy, I will provide you that as well. So if you're using it for the first time, right, it will ask you to change the password.

And once you log in into your Oracle Academy ID, right, you can already see here, the channel, let's say object oriented programming March 23, right, you click on this and then you will see you've been assigned with one course that's jaw, jaw Foundation, right. So you will click on this and make sure that you click enroll over here right once you click enroll on that so means you will be enrolled. The reason for that is if you do not click on the enroll you can still go through all of the contents but when you are going to the midterm exam right so that time actually your marks will not be displayed to me if you have not click on the enroll right so means you will not be marked for the midterm exam. So make sure that once you log in into it click on that enroll now let's say this student this ID has been already enrolled here are all of the contents that actually I have uploaded to my times all of the contents are from here if you go to your My times that those lectures right let's say for instance if I open the my times from here, which you guys can also access right.

Okay, object oriented programming. And then these lectures right? Week one I have uploaded all of this content. So let's say all these contents are exactly the one this that are also available here on the Oracle Academy ad itself. Let's say if I just go ahead, and I want to know about the course right, so I click on this one and then I click on display right

so is the same lecture class that actually I have uploaded on my time, right? So it's okay that if you want to get to the contents from this oracle Academy ID website, or you want to access it from my times, but yes, I would like to prefer you guys to go through it from the Oracle Academy ID. Why? Because you see, once you are reading the slide one by one, and you see that click Next button, right? So the moment when you're clicking the next button and you're learning so means once if this, this particular, this particular slide is completed, right, right, if I go here, and it's completed and then I click finish on it right. So means that here, it will be already added that actually you have learned this part, this one, this one section. This is important for the certification at the end of the day that you Want to get it from here, right? Because the certification you can only get once you go through all of the contents, right. So if you go later on here, so here it will be shown that you have completed this one lecture over here. So means all of the 57 or 67 lectures, once you complete it after that actually, you can go for your final term exam on the Oracle Academy. And then you will be provided with the certificate, right. So, whenever you're going through the contents, please go through the Java, Oracle Academy ID from here, right, where you can access the exercises and the things let's say if we just giving you another example for that already been provided, also here for the practicals. But it's okay, I have uploaded together with the source code on the my time, so you can access from here you guys can see here, this this section, if it's not visible from there, right, so this section, the PDF file has been provided, and the exercise has been provided. And all of the credentials will be provided here as well. But I have uploaded this to my times itself as well, you can check it in those practical classes were there. And also the solutions have been provided about that. But to the to discuss more on it, we can actually talk in it in the practical classes in order to get to understand it more, right. So okay. The one thing which I was talking about was the midterm exam, right. And that's here after section five. Once you reach to Section five, right after section five, you can see your foundation midterm exam. So again, I'm telling you, you do not need to click on this if you do not need to attempt the midterm exam. Anyone who clicked this midterm attempt exam before the timeline that I given to you, right? So means you will, you will not be marked for the midterm exam itself as well. The reason for that is actually I'll be changing all of the MCQ. The default MCQ that's being given at the back of it is just an MCQ, right? So I'll be changing those MC cues. And that's why you will be excluded from that. So try to attend all of the lectures, even if you want to complete the job complete course in one day, or today, or maybe in one month or one week, right depends on your energy. You can always learn in advance there is no bound on that, right. But do not attend this midterm exam. And also do not attend the final exam. The final exam actually, I'm not taking on Punjab. Sorry, I'm not taking here on the online, the final exam will be actually I have prepared the final paper already that will be online but not on this platform. Right. So make sure that once you log in into that, do not attempt those. Those midterm exam, right? Any any question or any confusion about this? Anyone? It's okay for now, if you do not understand it, right. It's alright. The next week, especially when we are taking those practical classes, right. I will explain it time and again. And even though if some of some of you are having problem with it, so you can come to me anytime and we can discuss it right. All right. Okay, so now let's go back to sorry, yeah.

Transcribed by https://otter.ai
